+++
title = "80 x 25 no more..."
date = 2010-01-12T05:37:13+01:00
tags = ["ubuntu"]
categories = ["Linux"]
published = true
author = "Morten Kjeldgaard"
keywords = "ubuntu"
+++
o
On my workstation, I have a beautiful, large, Samsung SyncMaster 275,
which is a 27.5" monitor. The screen area measures around 58 x 37 cm,
and the nominal resolution is 1920 x 1200 pixels.

The display is beautiful and crisp, and the fonts are nice and clear
on the X-display, and Kubuntu looks lovely on the monitor. My
wallpaper is an image of the stunning, intriguing and slightly eery
[MandelBulb][mandelbulb] 3-D fractal.

For a while, however, I’ve been annoyed with the virtual TTYs on my
workstation. With a screen this size, the font size of the 25×80
terminal is approximately 1 cm. Working on it gives me a feeling of
being teleported -25 years to an over sized version of the venerable
DEC VT100 terminal. Another thing, the Kubuntu splash screen with the
blue progress bar looked really ugly.

So today I did something about it. First, I ran:

```shell
    sudo hwinfo --framebuffer
```

That gave me a rather long list of framebuffer modes. I chose the
bottom one, that looked like this:

```shell
    Mode 0x037d: 1920x1200 (+7680), 24 bits
```

The number I needed was 0x037d. Next step is to edit the
/boot/grub/menu.lst and add:

```shell
    vga=0x037d
```

to the default boot line, and reboot.

I now have 240 x 75 character terminal, and it looks beautiful! Now, I
can run `byobu` with all its geeky goodness. And the Kubuntu boot-splash
screen now looks really professional. Nice. There’s a slight problem
with the status messages (from `fsck`) scrolling, but I can live with
that for now.

Needless to say, I can’t show you a screendump… well, perhaps I’ll
take a photo one of these days 🙂

I am a happy camper.

---

This post was originally written for my wordpress blog [MOK's
world][moks-world] and included here on 2024-06-17.

[mandelbulb]: http://adsadsf.dk
[moks-world]: https://mok0.wordpress.com/2010/01/12/32/
